---
title: MoTW Adventure Hook Builder
---

To build a good monster plot, make sure to hit at least five of these six points:

1.  There is unusual phenomena heralding the monster’s arrival - someone gets kidnapped, or killed, there’s a powerful thunderstorm out of nowhere, unseasonal cold weather, a power-out, everyone in town can’t remember the last hour of their lives, the local church has mysteriously etc. This way the players know something strange is up.
    
2.  The monster has some way of hiding/disguising itself. Usually this is just a lair that it has - a cave, or abandonded house, or sewer system, or ice-cream truck - somewhere it can hide out of sight. Other times it can disguise itself, either with clothing or some kind of ability to make itself look normal (wearing a thick and heavy coat with broad-brimmed hat, having sunglasses on to hide its eyes, a clinical facemask to conceal its maw, etc.). This makes finding the monster difficult, and also gives the players additional clues to hunting it down if they can figure out the disguise/hiding method
    
3.  It has an unusual/unnatural ability. At its most basic, this is just superstrength and toughness. Maybe it can fly, maybe it can turn into water, or invisible, maybe it can slither through the smallest cracks, maybe it can read minds or throw fire or freeze people with a glance. This way the monster is interesting and unique.
    
4.  It has some calling sign or some way for it to be tracked. This can be related to any of the above, such as ‘people always hear an ice cream truck around the time of the attacks’ or ‘there’s always a sewer opening near the attack locations’ or ‘the attacks only happen during the full moon’ or ‘during a thunderstorm’ or ‘attacks are always during the coldest part of the day’. This way the players can start to figure out either where it’s hiding or where/when it’s going to attack next.
    
5.  It has a motivation. This _can_ be as simple as ‘it wants to feed’ but typically the story will be more fun if the motivations are more complex. Motivations can be revenge against a specific group or target (‘all the victims are part of the Swanson clan’, or ‘only students from the year 8 maths class are being targeted’), it can be desire to obtain something (‘all the victims had all of their blood completely drained…and they all had O- blood type’, ‘all the attacks have been on personnel from the R&D department of the local tech lab, and in all cases their security passes have been stolen!), or it can be a desire to achieve a certain goal or bring about certain events (‘it’s targeting all of the power stations and generators in town, almost as though it’s trying to wipe out all electricity!’ or ‘it’s murdered five people in a circular pattern around town, with the town graveyard in the very centre!’ or ‘three shipments of highly toxic chemicals have been stolen, the truck drivers murdered - maybe its planning something with the water processing plant just outside of town?’). This gives the players some fun stuff to investigate, since understanding the monster is usually the key to killing it.
    
6.  Finally, it needs to have a weakness. Maybe it’s a specific kind of weather (‘it dries out quickly - no wonder it always attacks during the rain!’, or ‘it only ever comes out during the coldest part of the night…maybe a flamethrower will work?’), or a specific kind of element (‘silver bullets can penetrate its hide!’ or ‘alcohol dissolves its skin!’), or it’s a particular person or place (‘it always avoids the church for some reason…’ or ‘it killed the entire class, but for some reason left the only virgin alive…’), or it can even be a pathological fear (‘it avoids the lake for some reason’ or ‘it hates spiders more than anything!’). This gives the players a way to more easily defeat it, and adds extra depth to the story (if players spend more time investigating the monster, they can beat it easier).
    

If you tick all six of the above boxes, you can quickly create a plot involving any kind of monster design you want. If you need monster inspiration, just trawl through the plot summaries of shows like Buffy the Vampire Slayer, Smallville, The X-Files, Charmed and Supernatural, or check out the wiki list of mutants from the X-Men comics and build a monster around a super power concept.